Now the log in functionality is completed and we are properly displaying the plugin layout.
But let's also have an option for user to log out.
At the moment there is no way to log out and there is no way to revert back to the layout to the login
case.
So let's implement this functionality and the first thing we are going to add is the visibility of the
log out link on the navigation bar.
So in a component spec right here in the described for the log in.
We have the control for the feasibility of the my profile link.
So let's copy this test because the logout is almost similar.
So we are going to check logout link on our after successful login and logout link.
We are querying it, but the logout link will not be an actual anchor element because because there
is no navigation in it, it's going to be visibly same with the existing links like to my profile looking
or sign up.
But it's not going to be anchor, it's going to be a span.
And again, we will use the title here and the title will be Logout Saving this one.
So this is failing.
Let's add the let's add the look out span here, formatting the document first.
So I'm just copying the anchor for the my profile and pasting after that.
Now this is going to be span and closing the tag and span does not have the root link and the title
and the text content will be log out.
Let's also format this one more time.
So this is going to be visible when user is logged in saving it.
And the tests are passing.
And here in the browser we have the lookout link on our bar.
But there is a difference.
Like if I hover on the my profile link, there is this pointer cursor and for the lookout we don't have
let's also change the cursor for the locality as well so that user would feel this is something clickable.
So here in the app now bar component let's define inline style here and this is going to be for.
It's fun and it's going to be having your cursor set to pointer saving it.
And now if I over on this one, it is showing the pointer.
Now let's add a functionality to this one.
So whenever we click to the logout, we will go back to the not logged in layout, which means we will
see sign up and login links.
So adding that test and adding test to to the end of this describe look.
So in this test it displays login and sign up after clicking look out.
So we are going to be calling setup form.
Sit up, Logan.
So this is here.
Sit up.
Logan is opening the login page.
Filling the form and clicking to the button.
And then in the end, it's redirected to the homepage and the UI will be reflecting the loading layout.
So at this point we are going to get the logout link and we are going to click through it.
So let's have Logout Link and we get it by.
I'm just going to use this query here in the previous test.
So we are going to query span having title of log out.
Now we are going to click to this one logout link and click and the TypeScript compiler is showing us
error saying this element does not have the click property.
Let's cast it to HTML span element, which is the actual component.
So now we have the click for this element and that error is gone.
Then after clicking the logout we wait for fixture detect changes.
UI will be updated.
Now we can query the the elements, the links for the login and sign up.
Again, I will use the queries.
Here in one of the previous tests, we queried those.
So just copying them.
So taking the login link and sign up link, but this time they will be visible.
So this is going to be treated.
And same for the sign up link.
So we are clicking the logo link and in the end we expect the signup and logging link to be visible
saving this one.
And this is failing.
Let's fix it.
Now we are going to click to this spam.
And when we click it, let's call the lookout function in.
In this component, let's add the function here.
And basically all local and state is dependant onto the logged in user object here in the authentication
service.
So we need to update this one and let's delegate the the user object reset functionality to authentication
So we will call authentication service and let's go look at function of it.
There is no this function yet.
Let's create it.
So we will have a look out here and it's going to be updating this logged in user with the object like
this one.
So it's going to be updating log the user with a not logged in user object.
So this is the whole flow.
Let's save these changes.
And the tests are passing, let's test it on browser.
So we are logged in and let's click the log out and here we are seeing sign up and logging.
But if we reload the application here, we are seeing the logged in layout once again and that's because
the logged in state is kept in the local storage and when application is reloaded, the authentication
service is initialized with the data coming from local storage and that is containing the log state.
Therefore UI is showing the log in layout, so let's make sure we clear the storage after the user logs
out.
So adding it test for it.
So in this one it clears storage after user logs out.
So repeating the steps here.
Until the UI is updated.
Now we are going to check the local stories here.
So let's get the value as state and local storage gets item both the authentication state is stored
in this item.
So we are expecting this state to be not saving this one.
And this is failing because we are seeing this data in the local storage at the moment.
Now let's fix this.
So here in the authentication service, that's also clear the storage after we update the logged in
user.
So here we will call local storage remove item and we will remove the old.
So let's save this one.
And the tests are passing and let's test it on browser.
So here clicking log out and reloading the application and we no longer see the logged in layout because
the storage is clear now.
But we have one more issue here.
So here in this test we are not seeing the user one which was the logged in user.
And like if we go back and forth in this page, the user one is excluded from the user list.
And that's because when we are logging in, the backend is setting a cookie for us and that cookie is
being sent in each request going to backend.
We cannot clear that cookie on client site, it's an htp only cookie and the only way to clear it,
we need to ask backend to remove that cookie.
So we are going to send the request to backend to look out us.
So let's add the test now.
So in this test it sends log out request to back and
again repeating the steps.
We are going to click to to look out.
But in this one, we are going to check the the HTTP request going to the back end.
And for that, I will use this one.
This is copied from the setup login.
So after clicking logout, we are going to send the request to this endpoint.
Let's make sure we specify the URL here.
It is going to be API one zero log out.
By the way, this is doing the assertion part like if we don't receive a request to this end point,
it is failing.
But let's have an assertion by checking.
We are expecting this request not to be not saving this one.
So this is failing.
Now we are going to send an API request to Beacon and so far we gathered all the API requests under
this user service.
So let's add one more.
Let's have a look out.
And this is going to be returning this HTP client.
Again, this is a post request and the URL is API one zero logout.
And since this is a post, it is looking for an object.
But we will pass an empty object for this one.
So we have this function now and we are going to call it in number.
So we are calling this authentication service logout, but also we are going to call this user service
lookout as well to make the API call.
So let's inject the user service here.
User service, by the way, let's fix this import just is failing with this import.
So let's make sure this is a relative import like this.
So we are going to directory up and going on under the core and taking the user service.
So here we will be calling authentication service logout and also we will be calling user service log
out.
And since this is an observable, we need to subscribe to it so that request can be sent and let's save
these changes.
And the tests are passing.
Let's test it on browser.
And let's also open the developer tools.
Just switching to the network tab here.
Let's clear this output.
Now we are going to log in and let's log in with user to add password.
So we are sending authentication request and receiving the 200.
Okay.
With the user data.
And here in the response, it is setting a cookie like this.
So this is an IP only cookie and this cookie is added to the to the request going to server like this
one.
This is the request and therefore getting users.
And here we have the cookie added to the outgoing request.
And in the response we don't see the logged in user which is user to now I'm clicking logout but before
let's close this part.
So clicking logout here we have sent the request to backend API one zero log out.
We are receiving 200.
Okay.
With this message.
Now if I go back and forth, by the way, this is user one, user two was missing three four.
Now when we go to next page, if we would have been logged in, then on the next page, the first user
on the next page would be user five.
But let's see what's going to happen.
And here we are seeing user four in this list because now the request is not containing the logged in
user.
Therefore all users are listed and based on this pagination logic for the second page user four is on
the first spot.
So we have completed the logout implementation.